You cannot and will not convince me that there is any season better than fall. It’s got the gluttony-based holidays, the coolest clothes, and the best weather. As someone whose aesthetic hovers delicately between “teen witch who shops at Forever21” and “hygge cuddle nugget,” it is inarguably my time of year: Give me plaid skirts, decaying leaves, and cool, rainy days until I die.
But let me tell you what: For the past couple of years, New York City hasn’t been giving me much in the way of sweater weather. As I write this on a sunny October day, the temperature is clocking in at a toasty and oh-so-unseasonal 80 degrees Fahrenheit. Would that it were but a brief heatwave; in fact, we’ve been “enjoying” this weather for days. And the forecast tells me I can expect another 80-degree afternoon this weekend. Last year it felt like the dog days of summer until about a week before the frigid polar vortex set in, and it’s looking like 2017 won’t be much better.
So here I sit, escaping the summer-esque heat in the overzealous AC of my office building, pining for the tights and leather jackets that were meant to be waiting for me on the other side of the September finish line.
I’d like to say today is just a fluke, but that’s because the truth hurts: Fall is dead (sort of) and we (probably) killed it.
While my personal measure of fall’s arrival is mostly based on when I can wear suede without dying, there’s an arguably more scientific one: The stunning views of mountainsides seemingly aflame. This leaf peeping is an important milestone for scientists studying seasonal shifts. A tree’s autumnal bouquet heralds the end of its growing season, when the plant battens down the hatches and survives off internal sugar reserves for the winter.
“I’m a native New Englander, so I’ve been watching fall foliage for half a century,” says Richard Primark, a Boston University professor who focuses on changes in season.
It’s apparent that climate change, which is raising average global temperatures, is changing the timing of certain seasonal mile markers. But historically, climatologists have mostly focused on spring.